we're going to talk about getting in and
out of the kayak at the shore you're not
always going to have a dock to get in
and out of so it's a lot easier actually
than the dock all you need to do get in
water about below your knees nice
shallow water all you want to do is
basically rest the paddle out of your
way on the boat in the water and there's
two ways you can do it you can put a
foot into the boat first grab both sides
using your hands for balance and lower
your butt into the boat grab the paddle
and you're ready to go the other way
for some people it's easier for them if
they have less mount and flexibility go
ahead and grab both sides of the boat
leaving the paddle where they can reach
it again using their hands to flex just
setting their butt into the boat
shifting their hands again I've got all
my weight on my hands at the moment and
just getting into the boat whichever
works easier for you both ways are okay
so you always want to have the boat
facing out when you do that so you're
ready to go now coming in getting out of
the boat it's done the exact same way I
want to pull it to the shore
put the paddle out of my way put both
hands on the boat so I can use the
balance of my hands I'm shifting one leg
out shifting the other leg out and then
just standing up see it's a lot easier
than getting in and out at the dock one
other thing we want to talk about is if
your boat's full of water and you're by
yourself what you can do is actually
take one end up on shore like this that
ends up on shore you can flip the boat
over like this and basically seesaw the
boat up and down to drain out the water
so that way if you have water in your
boat if you swamped it that's the easy
way to get out the water out again just
see sorry one end up and down that
you're holding the other ends on the
shore